Hibernate(ORM 5.4.0)

1)What is Hibernate?
Hibernate is open source object relational mapping tool is used to store and retrieve data from database.


2)What is JPA
JPA stands for java persistence API.
It provide platform to work directly with objects instead of sql statements.


3)What is the diffrence between hibernate and JPA?
JPA is used to reduce the boilerplate code where as hibernate is implementaions of JPA.


4)What is ORM?
ORM stands for object relational mapping. It simplies data creation,data manupalation and data access.


5)Explain hibernate architecture?
Hibernate architecture comprises many interfaces such as session,session factory,criteria,query and transaction.
Before going to hibernate architecture we have some layers such as
1)Backhand api layer
2)database layer
3)Hibernate framework layer
4)Java Application layer


6)What are the core interfaces of hibernate?
1)Session
2)Session factory
3)Criteria
4)Query
5)Transaction
6)Configuration


7)Mention some advantages of using ORM over JDBC?
1)Details of sql quries are hidden
2)Application development is fast


8)What are some database supported by hibernate?
1)Mysql,oracle


9)List of key component of Hibernate?
1)session
2)Session factory
3)Transaction
4)Criteria
5)Configuration
6)Query


10)How sql query is created is hibernate?
By using session.createSqlquery method


11)What does HQL stands for?
HQL stands for hibernate query language


12)How HQL Query is created?
HQL query created by session.createQuery


13)How can we add criteria to sql query?
Session.createCriteria


14)Define persistance class?
The class whose objects direclty stored in database called persistence class.


15)What is mean by Thread safe?
Thread safe means we can't access multiple thread simultaneously at a same time.


16)What is session factory?
Session factory is an interface proide factory method to get instance of class.


17)Is session-factory object is thread safe?
yes,session factory object is thread safe.


18)What is session?
Session is an interface which is used to maintain the relation between hibernate application and database layer.


19)Is session object is thread safe?
no, session object is not thread safe.


20)What is the diffrence between update() and merge() method?
Update means editing something whereas merger means combine something.


21)What are states of objects in hibernate?
There are three states of objects in hibernate
1)Transient- The object is transient state means they don't have primary key and not associated with session.
2)Persistance -The object in persistance state means they direclty stored in database.
3)Detahced - The object is detached state means object is destoryed.


22)How to make immutable class in hibernate?
Mark mutable=false which class want to make immutable because by default they are mutable=true


23)How many type of association mapping supported in hibernate?
1)One to one - Only one record of table A is associted with only one records of table B and vice versa.
2)One to many- Only one record of table A is associted with one or more records of table B not vice versa.
3)Many to Many- Many records of table A is associated with many records of table B.
4)Many to one- Many records of table A is related to one record of table B.


24)Is it possible to collection mapping one to one and many to one?
It's not to possible to perform collection mapping with one to one and many to one.
It's possible only with many to many and one to many


25)What is logger?
Logger hepls to detect error in the application.
We can simple slf4j logger(simple logger forcascade for java)


26)What is API?
API stands application programming interface it helps to communicate two software.


27)What is coupling& Realtionship?
Coupling describe realtionship between the module.
Tight coupling- A class dependeds upon another class called tight coupling.
Loose coupling- A class doesn't dependes uponn another class is called loose coupling


28)What is cohesion?
Cohesion describe how single is created.
Adavnatage of cohesion is single class easy for maintance.


29)What is adhesion?
Adhesion helps to glues different things together. 


30)What is JPQL?
JPQL stands for java persistance query language,i.e not a native query. 


31)Mentions two component of hibernate configuration object?
1)class Mapping setup
2)Database connection


32)What is the diffrence between session.save() method and session.persist()method?
session.save() return current identifier of an instance where as session.persist() method doesn't return anything because return type is void.

33)What is the diffrence between get and load method in hibernate?
get() method return null if object is not found whereas
load() method return object not found exception if object isn't found.


34)What are the states of objects in hibernate?
There are three states of objects in hibernate
Transient- The object is transient state means it doesn't have primary key and not associated the session.
Persistance- The object is persistance state means directly stored in database.
Detached-  Detached state means after destroying the object.


35)What is Apache Tomcat?
Apache Tomcat is most common predefined server for an internet.
Tomacat is used to server java server pages.


36)What is Automatic dirty checking in hibernate?
Automatic dirty checking is feaures of hibernate,calls update statement automatically when changes occur in database.


37)What is HQL?
HQL stands for hibernate query language it is not native query.
The main advantage of HQL is 
1)No need to learn SQL
2)Simple to learn


38)What is the difference between first level cache and second level cache?
First level cache is associated the session and second level cache is cache is session factory.


39)Annotaions in Hibernate?
//------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------//

@ID,@Entity compulsory for hibernate 
1)@ID - @ID annotations is used to set primary key in the database
2)@Entity- @Entity annotations is used to mark a class is an entity and map table in database.
//-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------//

3)@Table- used to set name of table in database.If you don't write then they consider a class name is table name
4)@Column- used to set column name in table.If you don't write they they consider variable name is column name
5)@GeneratedValue(stratergy=GenerationType.AUTO) - used to set generating startegy of primary key.